Unit I
Internet, growth of internet, owners of the internet, anatomy of internet, ARPANET and internet history of the web, world wide web, basic internet terminology, internet applications—commerce on the internet, governance on the internet, impact of internet on society—crime on or through the internet, role of web browser, architect, collaboration and communication. Organizing information, Organizing web sites: intranet and extranet. Introduction to search engines, significance of navigation systems, types of navigation systems, tagged navigation elements, designing navigation system, Searching mechanism, Searching your web site, basic components, clients, domain names and IP addresses.

Unit II
Setting up a connection: Hardware requirement, selection of a modem, software requirement, modem configuration, communication terminologies: Node, Host, Workstation, bandwidth, interoperability, network administrator, network security, network architecture components: servers, clients, communication models, service options—email, News firewall etc.

Introduction to XHTML and HTML5: Origins and Evolution of HTML and XHTML, Basic Syntax, Standard XHTML Document Structure, Basic Text Markup, Images, Hypertext Links, Lists, Tables, Forms, HTML5. Syntactic Differences between HTML and XHTML.

Cascading Style Sheets (CSS): Introduction, Levels of Style Sheets, Style Specification Formats, Selector Forms, Property Value Forms, Font Properties, List Properties, Color, Alignment of Text, Box Model, Background Images.

Unit III
Introduction to Python: Applications of python in information industry, Introduction to Python, Data Types, Branching programs, control structure, array and strings, functions, functions and scoping, Functions and scoping, recursion and global variables. Creation, insertion and deletion of items in sets, strings, lists and dictionaries.

Unit IV
Classes and objects-oriented programming: Classes: Abstract data types and classes, inheritance, encapsulation and information hiding. File handling, exception handling, data (MySQLdb) operation: file check, table creation, insertion and deletion of data, regular expressions-REs in Python and plotting.


